Talk about some code quality tools.
The first one that we're
gonna do is probably one of
my favorite tools, which is Prettier.
Prettier is a tool, it's like the lost
code formatter for Javascript.
If you've written any amount of Go or
Elm is another one that has a really
good one or
the that have really good code formatters.
So let's talk about go format cuz
that's one that I'm more familiar with.
If you write go format or if you write go
it's all only formatted one way because go
from it formats all of your code for
you and
it takes all the discussion
out of tabs versus spaces.
Versus do I have a space
between parentheses or not,
it just does everything for you.
And I so love that because I so hate
having discussions with people about do
we put a space here or not,
do I put to this kind of white space?
I profoundly don't care,
I just don't wanna talk about it right?
And that's what Prettier does for you it
basically takes away the whole discussion
it says like look at you can
write your code however you want,
you can put in your semicolons,
you can not put in your semicolons.
And whenever you click save, it's just
going to format everything for you and
you don't have to think about it.
There's a background thread in my
brain that just got shut down, right?
I don't have to worry about white spacing
or indenting or anything like that,
it's just gone, and
it just worries about it, and I love that.
It means I get to think more
about code and less about fluff.
So what Prettier is gonna do is
it's going to take in your code,
it's going to break it down into
an AST abstract syntax tree and
then it's going to reprint it
out with its own set of grammar.
And it's going to blow away whatever code
styling you put into it, which basically
means don't bother putting any code
styling with it cuz it's going to go away.
I love this tool,
I it's literally the first thing
I put into any project that I do.
I'll show you how to use it, and
then we'll install into our project.
So if you're not familiar
with something called MPX,
MPX is a tool that will install
something and then run it immediately.
So I use it a lot if I want
to test something out so
you can say MPX Prettier and it's going
you can see I've already done this before.
Because autocompleting out there
it's going to install Prettier and
then immediately run it on something,
which is kind of fun if you want
to like test something out.
So I'm gonna say MPX app source app.js,
and
you can see here it just prints it out
of what it would code format it to be.
I think I have this unfortunately,
all set to run automatically no
matter what format and save.
We'll just turn that off for
just a second, now, so
you can see here I made my
code very unattractive, right?
Let's just make it the most
unattractive I can, let's do this.
All right, so now this is just objectively
terrible and hard to read, right?
Hopefully I'm just hurting your soul
a little bit, that's what I'm going for
I want you to feel it.
Okay and then if you run Prettier here,
if I bring this back up and
if I run MPX Prettier again, you can see
here, it'll print it out really nice,
like this into my terminal.
So that's what Prettier is gonna do for
you, and if I do-- right,
now notice up here it actually
went out and wrote it out here.
So now it actually did fix it directly for
me.
And if I try and run it again it'll be
grayed out because it'll say okay I ran it
but nothing had nothing changed.
So pretty works on a lot of things,
it works on CSS, it works on flow,
it works on TypeScript.
They're adding more languages,
I think they're talking about putting it
like in PHP and like further languages
out but for now, this is what it is.
Again, this is my favorite tool
like you don't even have to put in
like semicolons right?
So, I do this and I save it.
This is valid JavaScript, right,
technically semicolons for
the most part are optional in JavaScript.
Due to ASI automatic semicolon insertion
is the name of the process that does
it But if I do that again you'll see
here that they come back right away.
So in earlier versions of this course,
I actually used to teach standard
js if you've ever heard of that,
written by the Illustrious Ferris
who's a great open source author.
This standard does not allow semicolons so
it'll actually give you an error
if you write semicolons.
And so people ask me all the time do
I care, like do I have feelings about
semicolons is like as long as my
computer's writing for me, I don't care if
they're there or if they're not,
if Prettier such putting them in there.
I would stop putting them in there.
Is Prettier packaging VS Code.
It is an extension and I'll show you
here how to install in just a second.
But it's actually based on a command
line tool, yeah, which is actually
how most VS Code tools work they have a
CLI that they install with the extension.
So let's make our config here, so
I want you to make a new file here,
and they want you to call it .prettierrc.
The name is important, and
then inside of prettierrc I want
you to put an empty object.
This is a configuration object,
there are some knobs and
levers of like, do you want semi colons,
how much spacing do you want?
Those kind of things,
and I don't like that.
I think I've said this like a bunch of
times yet, but I'm gonna say to get I
don't care what the what the options
are I just want it to work.
So by putting this empty object in here,
you're basically signifying to
everyone's like,
this project is formatted by Prettier and
it's formatted by the default settings for
Prettier.
Feel free to look at it later and make all
the adjustments you want, that's fine.
And when I was introducing
this at Netflix,
I had to adjust a bunch of things to try
and get as close as to the code style of
the code that the code base was already
in to satisfy the most people I could.
There's tons of people that were had
a lot of feelings about code formatting.
I would suggest doing that if you're
trying to introduce it your work, but
otherwise, I just just do the empty
one and just get used to it,
it's very easy, right?
And now I want you to go
to if you're using VS code,
you can install a Prettier extension,
this one here.
There's several of them, you want to
install the one that has 19 million
downloads, right,
not the one that has 3,000.
It's one made by what is the name
of the package I can't remember.
Anyway, this is one that you want so
installed that, okay?
Then I want you to open
the settings which you can do by,
there's a couple ways of doing it.
But if you Cmd+Shift+P,
you can look at settings or
I always just hit Cmd+Comma,
Preferences, I don't remember what it is.
Anyway, just Cmd+Comma, Ctrl+Comma,
this will open this, and then he wants
format on save, so turn that on.
I'm assuming most of you
wanna set it up like I do, so
it just runs every time
that you save a file.
And then this one's super helpful as well,
require config.
Prettier yeah so prettier require
config this is super helpful
that basically a prettier won't run unless
there's a Prettier RC in the project.
This is really nice, so if you jump
between code bases that some that have
prettier configs and some that don't, this
will make sure that it only is running on
projects that do have Prettier configs for
you.
Honestly, I mostly leave this off cuz I
don't work on anything that doesn't have
Prettier as a rule of thumb.
So now, with all that set should you be
able to just save and it'll work right?
So not every time that I run
save it will work all right.
Now I no longer have to care at
all about spacing or semicolons or
commas it all just works out for me.
Let's talk a second about NPM scripts or
yarn scripts.
That's Jim, thank you for
this test one cuz we're not doing
testing until an intermediate React.
So, if you're gonna require that people
use some sort of library in your project,
like if I'm making a big open source
project or I'm trying to introduce this at
work, not everyone's gonna be
using the same editor as me.
And so I need to make sure that like
whatever I'm doing works for everybody,
not just for VS Code users, right?
I can't require everyone to
use the VS Code extension.
So the way that I do that is, I make a
script that runs Prettier with my config.
So that if someone's using Emacs or
something like that, it doesn't Emacs does
have a Prettier plugin but
maybe something else that doesn't.
Right, they can just run the script at the
end of this and then it will just work.
So you can make a format function and
just put Prettier-- right and
then we have to put a little bit
of like a regex match in here.
Back slash and
we're gonna put source slash * ,*,
* /, *, and you can put js here or
js comma jsx whatever you want to
put then backslash quote.
Why the quotes is cuz you want this
past you don't want bashers ESA
during the expansion, right?
So if you don't put these quotes here,
bash or zsh is going to intercept that and
it's going to go find all
the files that match that and
then pass that in to Prettier.
If you want Prettier to just
get this string directly, so
that Prettier can handle finding
all the files correctly.
If you want a more thorough explanation
of that I made a course called
The Complete Intro To The Command Line And
Linux.
And I go into in-depth in that.
Suffice to say different shells
do it different ways and
this makes it consistent that Prettier
can handle everything for you.
And now that I've done this
I can say npm run format.
And you have to install it,
that'll work too.
So now after you've done that,
you wanna say npm install--
are sent out dash D or
you can say- -save- Dev.
So two dashes, either the same thing, but
me being the lazy person,
I am -D works for me and then Prettier.
So why- D?
You want this to be a dev dependency
not a regular dependency.
Dev dependencies only get installed
while you're working on the project.
Dependencies get installed when it goes
out to production right you don't need
Prettier going out to production you
just needed to work on the project.
Okay, so now that I've installed that,
now you can say NPM run format and
you can see there,
now it's running Prettier.
Now a question you might answer
me might ask me is like, well,
what if they don't have
Prettier installed globally?
Which they shouldn't, to be honest with
you should really install it in every
project that you work on.
Let me explain to you how NPM scripts
works for just a second if you go
into your node modules for just
a second which is a scary thing I know
right now we only have Prettier so
it's actually not that deep in here.
Notice there's this weird .bin directory?
This is actually where all of your CLI
clients that are you installed your node
modules go into, right?
So you can see here there's
actually a Prettier thing here that
references the bin Prettier here, right?
So when I install eslint, you'll see the
eslint CLI command will end up in here,
you can see this as a shortcut.
Arrays are similar because
actually what it is.
Again, if that's confusing to you
check out this Linux CLI course.
But suffice to say, here my package.JSON,
I can reference anything that's
here in this .bin directory.
And notice smart enough to say, cool,
check the .bin inside of the node modules.
If it's there, run that one.
Does that makes sense?
What's nice about that
is now it's portable so
I can run this on Windows I can run
this on Linux I can run it on Mac and
it all works the same way cuz all
references the same Prettier binary.
Makes sense?
Probably more NPM stuff than you ever
wanted to know, but that's how that works.
There aren't really any alternatives for
Prettier at the moment,
I remember seeing one that they're trying
to make one that's more configurable,
more like es lint where you
can bring in your own rules.
Like I said, I don't really wanna think
about it so I just use Prettier but
you and prettier has good opinions, right?
But that's my thing about code format,
it's all just opinions about what looks
nice and it just doesn't
matter it's just code, right?
I'm not out here writing art.
>> There's one more question about package
JSON when you have a package lock, it gets
the exact same version but when that's not
there, how does it determine the version?
>> Good question, it's basically what's
the point of this package lock file.
So, without getting into
incredible depth in this,
if you look in your package, it should
be extremely long and it basically locks
down your version to specific numbers and
also specific If hashes right?
So that if I'm going out from my local
department where I tested everything works
in the way that I'm happy with them.
And then I go to production I can be
guaranteed that I'm getting the same
version that was the exact same file so
that's not like Microsoft can just
switch the files on me, right?
Cuz basically it'll install everything and
then it'll check the hash,
make sure is this literally the same
file that the developer saw when
they were working on it locally.
But you have to install it in a specific
way, you have to say npm install--
use lock or-- production or
something, I can't remember exactly.
But with some flag, it'll actually totally
ignore your package.json it'll only look
at the package lock.
So when you're working locally,
you don't wanna do that, but
when you go out to production
you do wanna do it that way.
So when you do you just say npm install,
it'll ignore your package lock,
if it doesn't exist, it will actually
generate the package lock file.
And you should check in
your package lock file and
you should never modify it directly.
Only NPM should modify
the package lock JSON file.
Yeah, for the most part, you can just
kind of just ignore its existence and
just kind of just let it update itself.
If you ever get in a bad state with it,
which I've I frequently find myself doing
just remove it and then just run npm
install again and it'll generate it.
That's what it's for it's for
making its code supply chain auditing.
I think it's the best way to put on what.
>> It's for just a quick note there
were people that were having an issue
getting In Prettier working inside
of their editor with format on save.
And there's an additional default
format or setting in VS Code that
are saying that setting it to
Prettier fixed that issue for them.
>> Yes so you have to set the default
JavaScript format because there's multiple
different ways you can format JavaScript,
eslint being one of them.
So you do have to set that, you have to
set a setting somewhere of basically that
is what makes JavaScript the default.
Usually, it will ask you.
>> It's default format or is the.
>> Okay, so default format has none.
Looks like you can have one of
your extensions be that and
that'll work, that's going to try and
run it on everything.
There is a way and that might even
be you just have to go into this.
There's a way you can see the JSON version
of the configuration you can actually go
in and set it just for
JavaScript and not for everything.
But you do have to set the normal it'll
say, hey, I don't have a format or for
JavaScript, do you want me
to set Prettier to be it?
And you can just say yes,
normally or just prompt you.
>> If you hit Cmd+Shift+P and
then type in settings,
it'll give you the options between UI or
JSON it's in the center.
>> There, you go so
here's all of my settings there's
probably my credit card information
in here somewhere so here we go.
This is the one you want here, editor.
Probably these two.
So JavaScript here like that,
which is setting it for specifically for
the JavaScript language.
You can say editor.default format or
esbenp.prettier-vscode.
And you can see there I haven't set it
set for JSON, and I haven't set for
JavaScript React as well.
Thank you.
So that's how you're supposed to do it if
you wanna set it for just your JavaScript,
setting the default format or
should probably be just fine.
You might have some problems like you try
and save us Python files and be like,
I don't know how to do this.
This gonna be a problem to
take Nina's course not mine.